**Managing and storing our methodology programs**

Notes by Kevin, 1/4/2019

Present: Tim, David, Kevin, Ella, Andrew, Ian

1.  Ian thanked Ella for last month’s meeting notes and gave a brief
    recap

2.  Regarding licencing Tim had emailed MRC without success but had
    consulted Will who said they were all valid. Kevin said he’d chosen
    GPL when setting up the Github repositories as almost a default
    option but it was pointed out that David P-S had recommended either
    MIT or BSD. Kevin will investigate.

3.  Ian stressed every one of our Stata’s help file should have a link
    to its Github project page

4.  Ian mentioned Ella would be working on the Stata simulation software
    with Ian and Tim. Kevin on Nstage testing.

5.  Tim said he had a problem when forking one of Ian’s repositories and
    was unable to make it private. There followed a discussion what
    exactly was a fork as opposed to a branch. Kevin mentioned that
    Github now offer free private repositories (though it appears these
    are limited to 3 collaborators) and we may not need to use the UCL
    paid for service because the only advantage this appears to offer is
    continuous integration which is not necessary for us.

6.  Andrew’s project (baseline data in CRTs)
    
    1.  Ready to go
    
    2.  Ian asked with test scripts? , Ella said not for the graphs, Tim
        suggested might be possible as svg graphics reduces to XML. Ian
        mentioned could be translated as pdfs.

7.  Kevin asked should we publicise a group email for end users to send
    their queries but the consensus was the author’s email was adequate

8.  Ian asked about ARTBIN, Ella said not yet on Github

9.  admetan project
    
    3.  Kevin said he had loaded David’s historical programs onto Github
        both in the same structure as in the Methodology S: drive and
        also as version controlled. Suggested not necessary to have
        both.
    
    4.  David said he needed a refresher on GIthub, as did Ian and it
        was agreed Kevin would lead a workshop on the basic use of
        Github – forking/cloning/branches/Pull requests, perhaps with
        the help of Will.
    
    5.  David said he needed to send some emails to the metan authors

10. Ian said he thought the group had almost met its aims. Kevin agreed
    to try to arrange a short workshop on Github before Easter depending
    on people’s availability.
